Project 1 for CMP SCI 4760 Operating Systems

This program uses child processes to read an input file and reverse the list of numbers in the input file.
The process id that handled the specific list of numbers is printed to an output file followed by the reversed list of numbers.

This program can take options that are processed using getopt()
The following options are allowed:
    
    -h            : to display this help message
    -i 'filename' : to designate the input file
    -o 'filename' : to designate the output file

If no options are given then the following default file names are used:
    
    INPUT:  input.dat
    OUTPUT: output.dat

Expected input file format is as follows:

    # of forks and list of numbers
    # of numbers on the following line to read
    # # # # # etc
    etc

Example

    3
    4
    1 2 3 4
    7
    1 3 5 7 9 11 13
    5
    1 2 4 8 16

How to execute:

    Compile using 'make'

    To use default filenames:
        ./logParse

    To use custom input file:
        ./logParse -i filename

    To use custom output file:
        ./logParse -o filename

    To use custom input and output files:
        ./logParse -i infile -o outfile


* * * * * * * * * *Assignment Description* * * * * * * * * *

Unix System Calls and Library Functions

The goal of this homework is to become familiar with the environment in hoare while practicing system calls. 
We will be using getopt and perror as well as fork(). Your project should consist of one program, which will fork off versions 
of itself to do some file processing. To do this, it will start by taking some command line arguments. You must implement at 
least the following command line arguments using getopt:
    
    -h
    -i inputfilename
    -o outputfilename

The -h option should display all legal command line options and how it is expected to run, as well as the default behavior. 
If input and output filenames are not specified, the defaults should be input.dat and output.dat. Once you have parsed the 
command  line arguments and validated them, then you should attempt to open the inputfile.  It will start with a number on 
a line by itself, with that number indicating the amount of times you will be required to do a task with copies of your process 
using fork. Each task list will follow in the file, which will consist of an integer on one line (representing the amount of 
numbers that will follow) and that amount of numbers. 

An example of this input file is below:

    3
    6
    3 6 107 8 1 3 
    4
    1 3 50 4
    7
    5 3 5 7 8 9 1

The original process should read the first line of the file.  Once it has read that line, it should then go into a loop based 
on that number, with each iteration of the loop forking off a copy that will then process the next two lines. Once that child 
has finished its work (defined below), it will write some data to the outputfile and then terminate. At that point, when the 
parent detects its child has terminated, it should do another iteration of the loop until done. After all children have 
terminated. the parent should write the pids of all of its children that it launched, as well as its own pid to the output 
file. When a child process starts, it should read the next line of the file, which will tell it how many numbers to read 
afterwards. We see in our example file that the first forked child would read a 6. It should then read that number of integers 
and put them into a stack.  Once you have put all of the numbers into a stack, the child should write its PID to the output 
file, followed by those numbers in reverse order. For example:

    13278: 7 3 1 8 107 6 3

After this has been done with the example file given above, we would expect an output file to look as below:

    13278: 7 3 1 8 107 6 3
    13281: 4 50 3 1
    13294: 1 9 8 7 5 3 5
    All children were: 13278 13281 1329

I’ll like some meaningful error messages. The format for error messages should be:

    logParse: Error: Detailed error message

where logParse is actually the name of the executable (argv[0]) that you are trying to execute. These error messages should be 
sent to stderr using perror.

It is required for this project that you use version control, a Makefile and a README. Your README file should consist at a 
minimum of a description of how I should compile and run your project, any outstanding problems that it still has, and any 
problems you encountered. Your Makefile should have an option to clean up object files.

What to handin
Handin an electronic copy of all the sources, README, Makefile(s), and a log of your revisions using your version control 
software. Create your programs in a directory called username.1 where username is your login name on hoare. Once you are done 
with everything, remove the executables and object files, and issue the following commands:
    
    chmod 700 username.1
    cp -p -r username.1 /home/hauschild/cs4760/assignment1

I want to see the log of when your program files were changed.  You should check in the files at least once a day while you are 
working on them. Omission of a Makefile will result in a loss of another 10 points, while an insufficient README will cost you 
5 points. I do not like to see any extensions on Makefile and README files. Before the final submission, perform a make clean 
and keep the latest source checked out in your directory. You do not have to hand in a hard copy of the project. 

Assignment is due by 11:59pm on the due date.
